What would you say if I asked you what is the big go of the function Finding Nemo.
Well to make this a little bit cleaner let's just remove performance done now because we've learned
that it's not very very important and we can remove the console log as well.
And looking at this and this loop what would you say the big-O is and this video we're going to learn
about our very first Big-O notation.
As we said a runtime is simply how long something takes to run.
How does this function and its runtime grow as our input increases as our input goes from just a single
item in an array Nimo to 10 items in array to 100000.
How does the efficiency of this function increase.
If we look at this graph and we say we have 4 items in the array while the number of operations is going
to be 4 right because we're going to loop through each item and say Is this Nimo is this nimo.
Is this nimo.
Is this Nimo four times.
No matter what we're looping four times at least with the way that we have this code set up if we have
five items in the array it's going to be five operations five loops six is the same six items is six
operations.
Seven is seven operations and eight is eight.
Operation do we see a little bit of pattern here.
Well we can draw a line through it.
This is linear rate as our number of inputs increase the number of operations increase as well.
And here ladies and gentlemen we've learned our very first Big-O notation.
We say that the finding nemo function has a big O notation of 0 and that's a little bit strange.
This is just a notation that you have to get used to but we say Big O of N or what we call linear linear
time it takes linear time to find a nimo.
Now where does this end come from.
This can be anything really.
I could put x.
I could put fish in here if I want is just an arbitrary letter.
And we usually give.
And when it comes to big-O this is just a standard that you'll see across the board and simply means
the big O depends on the number of inputs the number of fish.
So if we just had the Nimo array this would just be one if we had the every one array this would be
10.
And we had the large array Elby 100000.
But as the inputs increase you see that the number of operations increase linearly with it 0 when is
probably the most common Big O notation you'll find if we go back to the graph you can see that O N
is right here in the yellow region that's as far as the number of elements increase.
You see that is just a straight line.
The number of operations increases by the same amount because Keep this in mind big-O doesn't measure
things in seconds.
Instead we're focusing on how quickly our runtime grows.
We simply do this by using the size of the input which we call an or anything else that we want really.
And compared to the number of operations that increase that's what scalability means.
As things grow larger and larger Does it scale.
So the find Nimo function is o of and linear time.
And now the way to think about it is this.
If we had a compression algorithm let's say this function is this little compression and the input is
this little box what's the big oh notation of this function.
Well if we had one element it will just compress
one item.
If we had multiple elements again we still have to run each box through the compression algorithm to
compress the box.
If we look at the function for the compress boxes while we're using the E.S. and ESX syntax here but
we're essentially looping through each box and in the other case we're just cancel logging it.
But you can see here that all of these all we're doing as the input increases the boxes the number of
boxes increases the number of operations increase and that is O-N linear time.
Congratulations you've just learned your first big O notation and this probably the most common but
there's a few others.
So what other Big-O notation do we have other than linear time for that you're going to have to keep
watching.
I'll see in the next video Bebai.